.\" Manpage for ifstats system library.
.\" Contact j.m.slocum@gmail.com for corrections or typos.
.TH man 3 "24 Aug 2012" "1.0" "ifstats man page"

.SH NAME
getIfStats, releaseStats \- get the statistics for all ethernet devices

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ifstats.h>
.sp
.BI "IFStats_t* getIfStats();"
.sp
.BI "void releaseStats(IFStats_t " *stats);
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
ifstats is a library that allows a C programmer easy access to the data stored in
.I /proc/net/dev.
.sh
All of the stats are reflected in the
.I IFStats_t
structure.
.sp
.in +4n
.B #define IFSTATS_NAME_LENGTH 64
.nf
.sp
typedef struct _ifstats_t {
   char           device[IFSTATS_NAME_LENGTH];
   uint64_t       rxBytes;
   uint64_t       rxPackets;
   uint64_t       rxErrors;
   uint64_t       rxDrop;
   uint64_t       rxFifo;
   uint64_t       rxFrame;
   uint64_t       rxCompressed;
   uint64_t       rxMulticast;
   uint64_t       txBytes;
   uint64_t       txPackets;
   uint64_t       txErrors;
   uint64_t       txDrop;
   uint64_t       txFifo;
   uint64_t       txCollisions;
   uint64_t       txCarrier;
   uint64_t       txCompressed;

   struct _ifstats_t* next;
} IFStats_t;
.fi
.in
.PP
The
.I next
field contains a pointer to the next structure on the list, or NULL if this is the last item on the list.
.PP
The
.I device
field contains the name of the device that the statistics apply to. 
.PP
All of the statistical fields relate directly to the fields in 
.I /proc/net/dev
and are in the same order.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.B getIfStats()
function will return a pointer to a malloc\(aqd
.I IFStats_t
linked list on success. On failure it will return NULL and
.I errno
will be set.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example shows you how to use the
.B getIfStats()
and
.BI "releaseStats(" IFStats_t *stats)
functions.
.nf
.sp
#include <stdio.h>
#include <ifstats.h>

int main(int argc, char* argv[]){
   IFStats_t* stats = getIfStats();
   if (!stats){
      printf("Unable to fetch stats! %d (%s)\\n", errno, strerror(errno));
      return EXIT_FAILURE;
   }

   for (IFStats_t* current = stats; current != NULL; current = current->next){
      printf("Device: %s\n", current->device);
      printf("\\trxBytes:      %llu\\n", current->rxBytes);
      printf("\\trxPackets:    %llu\\n", current->rxPackets);
      printf("\\trxErrors:     %llu\\n", current->rxErrors);
      printf("\\trxDrop:       %llu\\n", current->rxDrop);
      printf("\\trxFifo:       %llu\\n", current->rxFifo);
      printf("\\trxFrame:      %llu\\n", current->rxFrame);
      printf("\\trxCompressed: %llu\\n", current->rxCompressed);
      printf("\\trxMulticast:  %llu\\n", current->rxMulticast);
      printf("\\ttxBytes:      %llu\\n", current->txBytes);
      printf("\\ttxPackets:    %llu\\n", current->txPackets);
      printf("\\ttxErrors:     %llu\\n", current->txErrors);
      printf("\\ttxDrop:       %llu\\n", current->txDrop);
      printf("\\ttxFifo:       %llu\\n", current->txFifo);
      printf("\\ttxCollisions: %llu\\n", current->txCollisions);
      printf("\\ttxCarrier:    %llu\\n", current->txCarrier);
      printf("\\ttxCompressed: %llu\\n", current->txCompressed);
   }

   releaseStats(stats);  
}
.fi

.SH LICENSE
Copyright (C) 2012 James Slocum

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this 
software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software 
without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, 
merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to 
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following 
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies 
or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, 
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, 
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE 
OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

